1. Introduction to Python and its Features (simple, high-level, interpreted language).
ans. Python is a powerful, high-level, general-purpose programming language.  
Python is widely used for various applications, including web development, data analysis, 
artificial intelligence, scientific computing, automation, and more. Its simple and readable 
syntax makes it beginner-friendly and an excellent choice for both novice and experienced programmers.

Features :
Simple and Easy to Learn
High-Level Language
Interpreted Language
Extensive Standard Library
Open-Source
Automatic memory management

2. History and evolution of Python.
ans. Python, a high-level, general-purpose programming language, was developed by Guido van Rossum in the late 1980s 
and was first released in 1991. Its design philosophy emphasizes code readability and simplicity, making it accessible 
to both beginner and experienced programmers.

Today, Python is one of the most popular languages globally, known for its simplicity, versatility, and extensive 
library support in fields like web development, AI, and data science.

3. Advantages of using Python over other programming languages.
ans. Easy to Learn and Use - Simple Syntax: Python's syntax is clean, intuitive, and similar to English, making it beginner-friendly.
Shorter Code: Tasks that require multiple lines in other languages can often be done in fewer lines using Python.

Versatility - used in diverse fields like data science, web development, etc.

Extensive Libraries and Frameworks - comes with a vast standard library and third-party libraries, saving time and effort.

Open Source and Free - Python is free to use, distribute, and modify, with active contributions from the global developer community.

Interpreted Language - Python is executed line by line, making it easier to debug and test code compared to compiled languages.


4. Installing Python and setting up the development environment (Anaconda, PyCharm, or VS
Code).
ans. Downloaded and installed from official website.
VS code is the code editor that supports python through extensions.
Download and installed VS code and start coding.
VS Code is great for general-purpose Python development, offering flexibility and extensibility.


5. Writing and executing your first Python program.
ans.
The first program i have executed was basic program to print hello world to check the functionality of programming and then other functions get added.
print("hello world")

it was easy to program , every programmer compiles and executes it at beginner level.

