
1. Introduction to for and while loops.
ans. The for loop is used to iterate over a sequence (such as a list, tuple, string, or range) and execute a block of code for each item in the sequence.

for variable in sequence:
for i in range(5):
    print(i)

The while loop repeatedly executes a block of code as long as a given condition is True. If the condition becomes False, the loop will stop.
count = 0

while count < 5:
    print(count)
    count += 1  # Increment the count to avoid infinite loop

for loop: Best used when you know the number of iterations or need to iterate over a sequence (list, range, string, etc.).
while loop: Ideal when the number of iterations is not known in advance, and you want the loop to run until a condition becomes False.


2. How loops work in Python.
ans.The for loop in Python is an iterative loop used to iterate over a sequence (such as a list, string, tuple, or range). 
It is particularly useful when you know in advance the number of iterations you need to perform, or when you want to iterate over each item in a collection or sequence.

Initialization: The for loop starts by initializing the loop variable to the first element in the sequence.

Iteration: The loop executes the code inside the block for each item in the sequence. For each iteration, the loop variable takes the next value from the sequence.

Completion: When all the items in the sequence have been processed, the loop terminates and the program continues with the next section of code after the loop.


3.Using loops with collections (lists, tuples, etc.).
ans.In Python, collections like lists, tuples, strings, and dictionaries are commonly used to store multiple items.

list  : A list is an ordered collection of items that can be of different types. Lists are mutable, meaning their elements can be modified.
Tuple : A tuple is an ordered collection like a list, but it is immutable, meaning its elements cannot be changed after creation.
String : A string is a collection of characters. It is iterable, so you can use a for loop to iterate over each character in the string.
Dictionary : A dictionary is an unordered collection of key-value pairs. When iterating through a dictionary, you can choose to loop over the keys, values, or both.
Sets : A set is an unordered collection of unique elements. Since sets are unordered, the order of elements is not guaranteed during iteration.